"We must be the change we wish to see in the world." ~Gandhi


What is Voluntaryism?

Voluntaryism is the doctrine that relations between people should be by mutual consent, or not at all. 
Voluntaryists dream of a better world.
A world without coercion, force, aggression, violence and war.
Voluntaryists dream of a voluntary society achieved by voluntary means.



Our perspective

In order to understand the mission of Voluntaryist Ventures it is necessary to first understand our perspective.

At times, the inability to control fear may lead all of us to feel the temptation to use coercion or outright force to inflict our   will on others.
The lack of this skill is the root cause of all conflict and violence between individuals.
The lack of this skill is the root cause of the division of society into waring tribes of "us" and "them" and the creation of hierachical power structures within those tribes.
The lack of this skill is the root cause of the existence and growth of the oppressive nation state.
The lack of this skill is the root cause of the unrelenting barrage of stifiling laws, rules and regulation that sucks the joy out of life, grinds economies to a halt, and plunges us into economic crisis.
The lack of this skill is what eventually leads to the paralysis of the nation state and the ascent to power of totalitarian forces.
The lack of this skill is the root cause of the unrelenting war and barbarism that consumes much of our world.
The lack of this skill is the root cause of the feeling of learned helplessness which leads individuals to mistakenly believe that they cannot make a difference in the world.
From this perspective it becomes apparent that the development of this skill is an urgent necessity if we wish to avoid destroying ourselves.

The development of this skill is an urgent necessity for the preservation of the human race.

Voluntaryist Ventures was founded based on this insight and with understanding that the same pattern of self-destruction which exists in the nation state also exists within the corporation.



What is Voluntaryist Ventures?

Voluntaryist Ventures is not a company. 
We are to the company as the un-conference is to the conference.
You can think of us as the un-company. 
We are a decentralized network of self-organizing free men and women working to achieve a voluntary society by a novel means.





Our Mission

We believe that the hierachical power structures of the modern corporation breed bureaucracy, inefficiency, waste and corruption. 

We aim to prove to the world that, in time, a sufficiently motivated self-organizing system of free men and women can outperform any hierarchically organized competitor in any market no matter how big the odds. 

The command economies of the communist world were outperformed by the free market economies of the west and eventually fell. This happened despite the fact that the governments of those countries had massive resources at their disposal. For the same reason, the hiearchical power structures of the modern corporation will be outperformed by and will fall to the dyanism of self-organized free men and women.

We believe that the force of freedom is so powerful that any and all challengers will be swept away even in a non-free marketplace where the cards are stacked against it. 

Our goal is nothing less than relegation of the very idea of the corporation to the dustbin of history. 

With each victory we will win more hearts and minds to the cause of freedom and inspire others to follow in our footsteps.

We believe that the force which drives people to create hierarchical power structures in their companies is the same force which leads to the creation of that hierarchical power structures in all organizations. 

One such organization deserves special mention. The institution we refer to as "the state". This corrupt and evil mafia-like institution robs each of us at gun-point of a huge portion of our wealth and uses it to finance all many of aggression against all manner of people both at home and abroad, murdering millions and imprisoning millions more for violating its increasingly arbitrary and immoral laws.

We aim to eliminate not only the corporation but to eliminate the state as well. Most people already know that such institutions are inherently evil but fear leads many believe them to be necessary evils. We aim to prove in practice that such institutions and their power structures are unneccessary and that living our lives as truly free men and women pursuing our dreams with a clear conscience that comes from neither engaging in nor supporting aggression is the true path to happiness.

We believe that ending the existence of the state is an urgent task. We must accomplish this goal before the cycle of history repeats itself and the economic depression caused by the the state leads to the ascension to power of totalitarian forces who would possess the resources to commit mass murder on a scale heretofore unimaginable.

Saving humanity from this fate is the passion that drives us.




How to get involved ...

You need not quit your day job. Simply find a project that interests you and request to join it or create your own and contribute to it as you are able to in your free time.

Consistent with our values and beliefs there are "no rules" as to how projects choose to organize themselves and compensate their members. Each project should make these decisions on their own. That’s the "self-organizing" part. As you discover methods of self-organization which work, and those that do not work, please share those with the community and enable us all to grow stronger.

We recommend that anyone who contributes to a project should share our desire for a voluntary society, our belief in how it can be realized and our strategy for manifesting the dream.  However, strictly speaking, these things are not required. 

The single requirement we have for involvement in any project which seeks to utilize the Voluntaryist Ventures brand name is that all members of the project must take the Non-Aggression Pledge.

All projects are completely independent. Voluntaryist Ventures is merely a brand name which a project may or may not choose to leverage if its members agree to take the Non-Aggression Pledge.



The Non-Aggression Pledge

"I <state your name> do hereby solemnly swear on my personal integrity to give my very best effort to resist the temptation to use coercion against others in all circumstances. I recognize that hierachical power structures are coercive organizational forms which violate the Non-Aggression Principle and I will not allow such structures to form in the projects in which I am engaged. I further pledge, that if ever I should violate my pledge, I will admit my mistake and agree to pay any penalty required by the projects in which I am engaged."




Help Wanted


Entrepreneurs

The entrepreneur is the force that moves the world.
You see things differently than others.
You are driven by a passion to make the world better in some way.
To make people's live better in some way.
That passionate belief in your dream sustains you and enables you to overcome the inumerable obstacles that lead most people to give up.
You envision your business growing and expanding.
You take great joy in bettering the lives of an ever larger number of people as it does so.
But as your business grows, something unforseen happens...
To accomodate the ever growing number of employees you need, you put an organization structure in place.
Unsure of what structure to use, you choose to simply model the hierachical structure that everyone else uses.
You don't really care about such things after all, your passion is in serving people, and whatever structure helps you to do that more efficiently in the present moment is okay with you.

But stop for a moment and really think about the consequences of that decision.
Look at those who have come before you.
Look at what has become of all of those great businesses of years ago that you once admired.
What have they become today?
Pay particular attention to those that are no longer headed by the entrepreneur who founded them.
Is there a single one of them that you actually admire?
If not, why?
Do you really want your baby to turn into one of these monstrosities?
If you had the choice, would you not rather leave a legacy that you can be proud of?

Please give some serious thought as to how you choose to organize your venture.
You are a risk taker after all.
You think differently than the rest.
And you are driven to make the world a better place are you not?
And you are not afraid to be different are you?
Take the Non-Aggression Pledge.
Forswear hierarchical power structures.
Join forces with the voluntaryists, and let's change the world together.
We need you.
We can't do it without you.



Hackers

Do you work for a big corporation?
How much do you like your job?
Are you able to really pursue the things that you are passionate about there or are your initiatives crushed by the bureaucracy?
Have you noticed a bizarre pattern of seemingly irrational decisions from higher ups?

In truth, you would love to pursue your dream if you could but you rely on that stable pay-check do you not?
The risk of leaving is too great and so you have chosen to quash your dreams for the sake of security have you not?

What if there was a way to make it less risky?
What if you could join with others to pursue your dream in your spare time and be supported by a community of people who want to help you to succeed?
The building of such a community is what Voluntaryist Ventures seeks to achieve.

As a hacker you know from experience that this model works in the open source world.
You know intuitively that the bazaar is a superior organization form to the cathedral.
If it can work in the open source world, then why not in the wider world?
Join us.



Voluntaryists











