What is Voluntaryism?

Voluntaryism is the belief that interactions between human beings should be voluntary, mutually consenting and free from coercion. Voluntaryists dream of a voluntary society achieved by voluntary means.

What is Voluntaryist Ventures?

Voluntaryist Ventures is not a company. You can think of us as the un-company. We are a leaderless organization of individuals who are united by our passionate opposition to all forms of tyranny and an unshakeable commitment to bring about a voluntary society in our lifetime.

Strike at the root

The core belief that unites us is simply this …

The root cause of all coercion, force, violence and tyranny in this world is “uncontrolled fear”. Some human beings who do not currently possess the skills to control their fear seek instead to control their environment. This often means imposing their will on other people – either directly or indirectly through an intermediary – such as the state. Indeed it is the force of uncontrolled fear that gives rise to and sustains “the state”.

We believe that which we call “the state” is nothing more than a physical manifestation of the collective uncontrolled fear of a society. We believe that when enough people choose to control their fear instead of each other all tyranny will vanish, the state would cease to exist and the age of barbarism will on earth will be ended.

Unless and until a sizeable number of human beings choose to stop imposing their will on others, seek instead to face and overcome the fear itself, and institute mechanisms by which future generations can master this skill, tyranny and barbarism will continue to plague our world.

For those of us who desire genuine and enduring freedom for all and an end to tyranny and barbarism for all time, the task at hand is to realize the dream of a new world by winning the hearts and minds of others to this idea - one person at a time.

This is the only way. There are no short cuts. Freedom without can be neither attained nor sustained in the absence of self-mastery within. Tyranny and barbarism cannot be ended unless and until the emotional maturity of our species is increased. Any strategy to end tyranny which does not directly attack the underlying root cause of tyranny will yield zero return on investment. We must strike at the root.

We accept this truth. We accept the enormity of the task at hand and commit ourselves to working together to achieve it. We realize that before we can change the world, we must first change ourselves. We must demonstrate with our own lives what human beings are capable of.

“We must be the change we wish to see in the world.” ~Gandhi

Our Mission 

To accept the truth that uncontrolled fear is the root cause of tyranny is to begin to see clearly that this phenomenon manifests itself not just in politics but in many areas of our lives. This realization, in turn, gives rise to many opportunities to strike at the root.

Perhaps one of the best opportunities is in the workplace. Since most of us must work for a living why not infuse our livelihood with meaning by transforming it into an opportunity to strive towards our dream of a voluntary society?

The mission of Voluntaryist Ventures is to prove to the world beyond a shadow of a doubt that a coercion free self-organizing system of free individuals is a superior organizational form to that of the rigid top-down hierarchical power structure of the modern corporation. We believe that the force of freedom is so powerful that any and all challengers will be swept away even in a non-free marketplace where the cards are stacked against it. Our goal is nothing less than relegation of the very idea of the bureaucracy-laden corporation to the dustbin of history. With each victory we will win more hearts and minds to the cause of freedom and inspire others to follow in our footsteps.

How to get involved …

You need not quit your day job. Instead, simply find a project that interests you and request to join it or create your own and contribute to it as you are able to in your free time.

Consistent with our values and beliefs there are “no rules” as to how projects choose to organize themselves and compensate their members. Each project should make these decisions on their own. That’s the “self-organizing” part.

We recommend that anyone who contributes to a project should share our desire for a voluntary society, our belief in how it can be realized and our strategy for manifesting the dream.  However, strictly speaking, these things are not required. 

The single requirement we have for involvement in any project which seeks to utilize the Voluntaryist Ventures brand name is that all members of the project must take the zero-coercion pledge.

All projects are completely independent. Voluntaryist Ventures is merely a brand name a project may choose to leverage if its members agree to take the zero coercion pledge.

The zero-coercion pledge

“I <state your name> do hereby solemnly swear on my personal integrity to give my very best effort to resist the temptation to use coercion against others in all circumstances. I further pledge, that if ever I should fail to do so, that I will admit my mistake and agree to pay any penalty required by the projects in which I am engaged.”
